
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

Your architecture diagram seems complete. Feel free to come back to it and update it throughout the semester.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

For the next Milestone, you should have pop-up windows asking the user whether he/she agrees to give access to the app to his/her photo gallery.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Your figma is really complete. We appreciate that your Wireframe also features the user stories, it's useful to get the purpose of each screen from the user's perspective. Maybe you could try to find some artistic direction (colors, forms, illustrations, ...) in your Mockup, because for now it feels a little empty with white backgrounds and basic material3 composables, show your personality and add your touch !

For this part, you received 14 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

UI elements are consistent, dark mode works, and layout is responsive (we can change the phone orientation or the screen size and the elements are stil fully visible and readible).

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

Your code coverage is reaching 79.4%. You are really almost there, just a little more effort ! Your endeavor in maintaining high standards for quality assurance right from the beginning is real asset.
For next Milestone, you should still ensure that you have:
- At least 1 meaningful UI test per screen 
- At least 1 meaningful unit test per view-model
- At least 1 meaningful unit test per repository

As discussed during the Friday meeting, the E2E test is missing unfortunately, please fix that for next milestones.

For this part, you received 23 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

Your app is working flawlessly, fantastic job !! Everything works as expected, even the interactions with the Firebase. It never crashes and is showing no bugs, and when a button is not yet implemented, we get notified with a toast. Remark: when adding a journey, you should enforce the date format with material3 Date Picker. 

Unfortunately, we can't sign in with a real phone. We have this error: Error starting sign-in: 10: [28444]. Next time please test the app on an android phone beforehand to be sure it works.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.



For this part, you have been penalized 0 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

The Sprints are well documented, good job.

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

Your user stories are linked to the related epic.
Here's a structure you can adopt for the description of your tasks: 1) User story related, 2) In-depth description of the task, 3) QA Plan, 4) Remarks.
Your Scrum Board is managed in a pristine way, great job ! This is your main organisational tool, at the heart of all team decisions, and you will certainly benefit from having everything in order soon or later. We suggest that you replace the number entry for estimated and actual times by a list of predefined times (such as 30min, 1h, 2h, 4h, 6h and 8h) so that it appears directly on the Scrum Board without hovering on it with the mouse.

For this part, you received 18 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 5.25. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
