# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


All the features in your app add substantial value and meet the M2 requirements. You have some complex implementations, and although the app is not fully complete the current features show how it could serve users effectively. To further improve you could try to implement innovative and original features that are impactfull both in their design and in their functionality.

All the features that were planned for the second milestone have been implemented and are complete, bug-free, while allowing a good user experience. Well done, keep up the good work !

As a team, you consistently implemented features that truly benefit your application. For next sprints, you could prioritize features even more on the value they add to the application. You can start to think about the offline usability of your app.


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


The Figma is up to date with the application. To improve, try having some future features already in the Figma. Having a Figma always ahead of the app will allow your team to always know what you should be implementing next, and how it should look like. Other than that the Figma looks good and is really representative of the application. Well done !

The Architecture diagram is up to date with the app. It provides a clear overview of the app structure and dependencies. The architecture of the app is well thought, good job !




For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


Your codebase is well-documented, follows conventions and is modular. You have incorporated the feedback we made for the first milestone and there is a notable improvement. As for M3 you will prepare your app for a public release, your code should be pristine. If you want to take it further, think about cognitive complexity (not having too much nested conditions for example), and how you could refactor your code accordingly, but this is just a suggestion.

The line coverage is really high (just a notch under 90%), congrats ! All screens and features have meaningful tests and you implemented two end-to-end tests. However, the second end-to-end test is not really an end-to-end test. It does not test a real user flow and is pretty short. Moreover it almost only tests whether components are displayed. You should try to improve this end-to-end test for the next milestone.

Unfortunately, the APK could be installed, however we were unable to log in using a Google account. It could come from the fact that you try to access some data stored into the google account and it needs more security. Given the exceptional circumstances, we still tried your app using the emulator. The app works flawlessly on small phones as well as in horizontal mode, and no bugs were detected. The interactions with the Firebase work as expected. In dark mode, some texts are in written in black on a dark background, which makes them hard to read, make sure to fix that.



For this part, you received 14.4 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


The sprint backlog for the sprint 6 is well-organized. Each task has an assignee, an estimated time and a priority. The priority is often set to P0, having features of smaller importance in your backlog can be useful to decide which direction your app will take having them in mind. To reach the next level, you must add a detailed description to each task. For example for bugs you should explain in which case they happen and the potential strategy you want to use to solve them.

The product backlog contains several user stories, however they should be moved to the columns 'Done in Sprint x' once implemented for better clarity. At least, differentiate the user stories that are already implemented from the others to prevent confusion. You could use a tag or any other method that works for you. The priorities assigned make sense. You could also add new user stories to better reflect the direction you want you app to take.


For this part, you received 2.4 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


You completed two stand up meeting sheets every week, well done ! Your documents are always completed in time and include relevant details. Keep up the good work !

Concerning the Scrum meetings, the team show some great autonomy. The meetings are well-structured which facilitate clear improvement every sprint. The team always know what to implement the following sprint and how to divide the tasks among team members, well done !

We can clearly see the improvement in autonomy through the sprints and the coaches are no longuer essential for the team to operate. The Scrum process is clearly managed independently by the students and the team is self-sufficient. Keep going this way !


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


Even though there are only five members left in the team, there is still value added every sprint. Moreover, we know that those last weeks were hard with all the midterms, but the overall addition to the application this milestone is really great ! Keep up the good work, you are really getting the hang of it now !


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 5.24. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
